A bad beginning makes a bad ending.
A bad bush is better than the open field.
A bad compromise is better than a good lawsuit.
A bad conscience is a snake in one's heart.
A bad custom is like a good cake, better broken than kept.
A bad padlock invites a picklock.
A bad penny always turns up.
A bad thing never dies.
A bad workman quarrels with his tools.
A bargain is a bargain.
A beggar's purse is bottomless.
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A bird is known by its note, and a man by his talk.
A bird may be known by its song.
A bit in the morning is better than nothing all day.
A blind man who leans against a wall imagines that it's the boundary of the world.
A blind man will not thank you for a looking-glass.
A book is the same today as it always was and it will never change.
A book that remains shut is but a block.
A borrowed cloak does not keep one warm.
Absence sharpens love, presence strengthens it.
A burden of one's choice is not felt.
A burnt child dreads the fire.
A candle lights others and consumes itself.
A cat has nine lives.
A cat may look at a king.
Accidents will happen.
A chain is no stronger than its weakest link.
A change of work is as good as a rest.
A cheerful wife is the joy of life.
A clean hand wants no washing.
A clear conscience is a soft pillow.
A clear conscience is a sure card.
A clear conscience laughs at false accusations.
A clear fast is better than a dirty breakfast.
A close mouth catches no flies.
A cock is valiant on his own dunghill.
A common danger causes common action.
A constant guest is never welcome.
A contented mind is perpetual feast.
A covetous man is good to none but worse to himself.
A crafty knave needs no broker.
A creaking door hangs long on its hinges.
Action is the proper fruit of knowledge.
Actions speak louder than words.
A discontented man knows not where to sit easy.
A disease known is half cured.
Admonish your friends in private, praise them in public.
A dog will not howl if you beat him with a bone.
Adversity is a good discipline.
Adversity leads to prosperity.
Adversity makes a man wise, not rich.
Adversity makes strange bedfellows.
Adversity successfully overcome is the highest glory.
A fair death honours the whole life.
A fair face may hide a foul heart.
A faithful friend is hard to find.
A fall into the pit, a gain in your wit.
A father is a treasure, a brother is a comfort, but a friend is both.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
Affairs that are done by due degrees are soon ended.
A flow of words is no proof of wisdom.
A fool always comes short of his reckoning.
A fool always rushes to the fore.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
A fool attempting to be witty is an object of profoundest pity.
A fool can ask more questions than seven wise men can answer.
A fool knows more in his own house than a wise man in another.
A fool may ask more questions in an hour than a wise man can answer in seven years.
A fool may give a wise man counsel.
A fool may throw a stone into a well which a hundred wise men cannot pull out.
A fool's bolt may sometimes hit the mark.
A fool's heart dances on his lips.
A fox may grow grey, but never good.
A friend exaggerates a man's virtue, an enemy his crimes.
A friend in court is better than a penny in purse.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
A friend is a second self.
A friend is best found in adversity.
A friend is never known till a man have need.
A friend is not so soon gotten as lost.
A friend to everybody is a friend to nobody.
A friend without faults will never be found.
After a storm comes a calm.
After black clouds, clear weather.
After death, the doctor.
After dinner comes the reckoning.
After dinner sit a while; after supper walk a mile.
After dinner sit a while, after supper walk a while.
After meat, mustard.
A full belly counsels well.
A full cup must be carried steadily.
A good anvil does not fear the hammer.
A good appetite is a good sauce.
A good beginning is half the battle.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
A good book is a best friend who never turns his back upon us.
A good book is a light to the soul.
A good conscience is a continual feast.
A good conscience is a soft pillow.
A good dog deserves a good bone.
A good example is the best sermon.
A good face is a letter of recommendation.
A good face needs no paint.
A good fame is better than a good face.
A good friend is my nearest relation.
A good head and an industrious hand are worth gold in any land.
A good healthy body is worth more a crown in gold.
A good heart cant's lie.
A good heart conquers ill fortune.
A good horse cannot be of a bad colour.
A good horse often needs a good spur.
A good marksman may miss.
A good maxim is never out of season.
A good medicine tastes bitter.
A good name is better than riches.
A good name is earlier lost than won.
A good name is sooner lost than won.
A good name keeps lustre in the dark.
A good neighbour is better than a bother in the next village.
A good surgeon must have an eagle's eye, a lion's heart, and a lady's hand.
A good tale is none the worse for being twice told.
A good tongue is a good weapon.
A good wife makes a good husband.
A good winter brings a good summer.
A great ship asks deep water.
A great talker is a great liar.
A guilty conscience is a self-accuser.
A guilty conscience needs no accuser.
A handful of common sense is worth bushel of learning.
A happy heart makes a blooming visage.
A hasty man is seldom out of trouble.
A heavy purse makes a light heart.
A heavy snow promise a good harvest.
A hero is known in the time of misfortune.
A horse is neither better nor worse for his trappings.
A house divided against itself cannot stand.
A Jack of all trades and master of none.
A joke never gains an enemy but often loses a friend.
A journey of a thousand miles begains with a single step.
A lamb is as dear to a poor man as an ox to the rich.
A lazy sheep thinks its wool heavy.
A lazy youth, a lousy age.
Ale will make a cat speak.
A liar is not believed when he speaks the truth.
A liar is worse than a thief.
A lie begets a lie till they come to generation.
A life without a friend is a life without a sun.
A life without a purpose is a ship without a rudder.
A light purse is a heavy curse.
A light purse makes a heavy heart.
A lion at home, a mouse abroad.
A little body often harbours a great soul.
A little child is the sweetest and purest thing in the world.
A little fire is quickly trodden out.
A little is better than none.
A little labour, much health.
A little leak will sink a great ship.
A little learning is a dangerous thing.
A little neglect may breed great mischief.
A little of everything, nothing at all.
A little pot is soon hot.
A little spark kindles a great fire.
A little wind kindles, much puts out the fire.
A living dog is better than a dead lion.
All are brave when the enemy flies.
All are not hunters that blow the horn.
All are not merry that dance lightly.
All are not saints that go to church.
All are not thieves that dogs bark at.
All asses wag their ears.
All bread is not baked in one oven.
All cats love fish but fear to wet their paws.
All covet, all lose.
All good things came to an end.
All is fair in war.
All is fish that comes to one's net.
All is flour that comes to his mill.
All is not at hand that helps.
All is not gain that is put in the purse.
All is not gold that glitters.
All is not lost that is in danger.
All is well that ends well.
All men are mortal.
All men cannot be first.
All one's geese are swans.
All rivers run into the sea.
All roads lead to Rome.
All's fair in love and war.
All's fish that comes to his net.
All shall be well, Jack shall have Jill.
All the treasures of the earth would not bring back one lost moment.
All the wit in the world is not in one head.
All the world's a stage, and all the men and women merely players.
All things are difficult before they are easy.
All things are easy that are done willingly.
All things are obedient to money.
All things will come round to him who will but wait.
All time is no time when it is past.
All truths are not to be told.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy; all play and no work makes Jack a mere boy.
Although it rains, throw not away your watering pot.
Always taking out of the meal-tub and never putting in, soon comes to the bottom.
A maiden with many wooers often chooses the worst.
A maid that laughs is half taken.
A man alone is either a saint or a devil.
A man apt to promise is apt to forget.
A man can die but once.
A man can do no more than he can.
A man can never thrive who had a wasteful wife.
A man cannot serve two masters.
A man can not spin and reel at the same time.
A man cannot whistle and drink at he same time.
A man has his hour, and a dog has his day.
A man has two ears and one mouth that he may hear much and speak little.
A man is as old as he feels.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A man is not a horse because he was born in a stable.
A man is not good or bad for one action.
A man knows his companion in a long journey and a little inn.
A man may dig his grave with his teeth.
A man may lead a horse to the water, but he cannot make him drink.
A man may love his house well without riding on the ridge.
A man may smile and smile and be villain.
A man may talk like a wise man and yet act like a fool.
A man of gladness seldom falls into madness.
A man of words and not of deeds is like a garden full of weeds.
A man's actions show his character.
A man who has friend must show himself friendly.
A man without a smiling face must not open a shop.
A man without money is a bow without an arrow.
A man without reason is a beast in season.
A match will set fire to a large building.
Ambition never dies until there is no way out.
A merry heart goes all the way.
A middle course is the safest.
A miserly father makes a prodigal son.
A miss is as good as a mile.
A moneyless man goes fast through the market.
Among the blind the one-eyed man is king.
A mother's love never changes.
An artist lives everywhere.
An ass endures his burden but not more than his burden.
A near friend is better than a far-dwelling kinsman.
An empty hand is no lure for a hawk.
An empty purse frightens many friends.
An empty sack cannot stand upright.
An enemy's mouth seldom speaks well.
An evening red and a morning grey, is a sign of a fair day.
An evil chance seldom comes alone.
An evil lesson is soon learned.
A new broom sweeps clean.
Anger is a short madness.
Anger rests in the bosom of folly.
An honest man's word is as good as his bond.
An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening.
An idle brain is the devil's workshop.
An idle youth, a needy age.
An ill workman quarrels with his tools.
An inch in a miss is as good as an ell.
An nod is as good as a wink to a blind horse.
An oak is not felled at one stroke.
An occasion lost cannot be redeemed.
An old dog barks not in vain.
An old dog bites sore.
An old dog cannot alter its way of barking.
An old dog will learn no new tricks.
An old physician, and a young lawyer.
An old poacher makes the best keeper.
An open door may tempt a saint.
An optimist sees an opportunity in every calamity; a pessimist sees a calamity in every opportunity.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
An ox is taken by the horns, and the man by the tongue.
Answer a fool according to his folly.
An upright judge has more regard to justice than to men.
A penny saved is a penny earned(or gained).
A pet lamb makes a cross ram.
A poor man who takes a rich wife has a ruler, not a wife.
Apothecaries would not sugar their pills unless they were bitter.
Apparel makes the man.
Appearances are deceitful.
Appetite comes with eating.
A quiet conscience sleeps in thunder.
A ragged coat may cover an honest man.
A ready way to lose friend is to lend him money.
A road of a thousand miles begins with one step.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
Art is long, but lift is short.
Art lies in concealing art.
As a man lives so shall he die.
As a man's heart is, so does he speak.
As a man sows, so he shall reap.
A secret between more than two is no secret.
A servant is known by his master's absence.
A silent tongue and true heart are the most admirable things on earth.
A single spark can start a prairie fire.
As is the workman so is the work.
Ask no questions and you will be told no lies.
A small leak will sink a great ship.
A smart coat is a good letter of introduction.
A smooth sea never made a skillful mariner.
A sow, when washed; returns to the muck.
A spot is most seen on the finest cloth.
As soon as you have drunk, you turn your back upon the spring.
A staff is quickly found to beat a dog with.
As the best wine makes the sharpest vinegar, so the deepest love turns to the deadliest hatred.
As the call, so the echo.
As the fool thinks, so the bell clinks.
As the inner life is, so will be the language.
As the old cock crows, so doth the young.
As the touchstone tries gold, so gold tries man.
As the tree falls, so shall it lie.
As the tree, so the fruit.
As they sow, so let them reap.
A still tongue makes a wise head.
A stitch in time saves nine.
A straight foot is not afraid of a crooked shoe.
A straw shows which way the wind blows.
A stumble may prevent a fall.
As well be hanged for a sheep as for a lamb.
As worms are bred in a stagnant pool, so are evil thoughts in idleness.
As you brew, so must you drink.
As you make your bed so you must lie on it.
As you sow you shall mow.
A tall tree catches the wind.
A tattler is worse than a thief.
A thief is a thief, whether he steals a diamond or a cucumber.
A thief knows a thief as a wolf knows a wolf.
A thing is bigger for being shared.
A thousand friends are few, one enemy is too many.
A thousand probabilities do not make one truth.
A thousand words will not leave so deep an impression as one deed.
A threatened blow is seldom given.
At night, all cats are grey.
At open doors dogs come in.
A tree is known by its fruit.
A true friend is known in the day of adversity.
A true friend is one soul in two bodies.
A true jest is no jest.
A true man and a thief think not the same.
A useful trade is a mine of gold.
A valiant man's look is more than a coward's sword.
Avarice blinds our eyes.
Avarice increases with wealth.
A wanderer who is determined to reach his destination does not fear the rain.
A watched pot is long in boiling.
A wicked book is the wickeder because it cannot repent.
A wilful man will have his way.
A wise head makes a close mouth.
A wise man cares not for what he cannot have.
A wise man changes his mind, a fool never will.
A wise man needs not blush for changing his purpose.
A wise man thinks all that he says, a fool says all that he thinks.
A wise man will make tools of what comes to hand.
A woman's work is never at an end.
A word is enough to the wise.
A word spoken is an arrow let fly.
A word spoken is past recalling.
A work ill done must be twice done.
A young man married is a man that's marred.男子早婚，种下祸根。
Bacchus has drowned more men than Nepture.
Bad news has wings.
Bad workmen often blame their tools.
Bare words, no bargain.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Be always as merry as ever you can, for no-one delights in a sorrowful man.
Beauty is but a blossom.
Beauty is but skin-deep.
Beauty is in the eye of the gazer.
Beauty is potent; but money is omnipotent.
Beauty is truth, truth beauty.
Beauty lies in lover's eyes.
Beauty may have fair leaves, but bitter fruit.
Beauty, unaccompanied by virtue, is as a flower without perfume.
Be considerate towards the poor.
Bed is a midicine.
Bees that have honey in their mouths have stings in their tails.
Before gold, even kings take off their hats.
Beg from beggers and you'll never be rich.
Beggars cannot be choosers.
Beggars must be no choosers.
Behind bad luck comes good luck.
Be honest rather clever.
Being on sea, sail; being on land, settle.
Be just to all, but trust not all.
Believe no tales from the enemy.
Believe not all that you see nor half what you hear.
Believe somebody on his bare word.
Benefits please like flowers, while they are fresh.
Be prepared to put one's hand in one's pocket.
Be slow in choosing a friend; slower in changing.
Be slow to promise and quick to perform.
Be swift to hear, slow to speak.
Better a bachelor's life than a slovenly wife.
Better a glorious death than a shameful life.
Better a little fire to warm us, than a great one to burn us.
Better an egg today than a hen tomorrow.
Better an empty purse than an empty head.
Better an open enemy than a false friend.
Better are small fish than an empty dish.
Better ask twice than lose you way once.
Better be alone than in bad company.
Better be out of the world than out of fashion.
Better be poor than wicked.
Better be the head of a dog than the tail of a lion.
Better be the head of an ass than the tail of a horse.
Better deny at once than promise long.
Better die with honour than live with shame.
better early than late.
Better eye sore than all blind.
Better good neighbours near than relations far away.
Better go to bed supperless than rise in debt.
Better half an egg than empty shell.
Better is the neighbour's hen than mine.
Better late than never.
Better lose a jest than a friend.
Better lose the saddle than the horse.
Better master one than engage with ten.
Better one-eyed than stone-blind.
Better pills may have wholesome effects.
Better poor with honour than rich with shame.
Better say nothing than nothing to the purpose.
Better some of a pudding than none of a pie.
Better the foot slip than the tongue trip.
Better to do well than to say well.
Better wear out shoes than sheets.
Better wear out than rust out.
Better wit than wealth.
Between friends all is common.
Between the cup and the lip a morsel may slip.
Between two stools one falls to the ground.
Beware beginnings.
Beware of a man of one book.
Beware of a silent dog and still water.
Beware of him who regards not his reputation.
Big mouthfuls ofter choke.
Bind the sack before it be full.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Birth is much, but breeding is more.
Bite off more than one can chew.
Bite the hand that feeds one.
Bitter pills may have wholesome effects.
Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he shall never be disappointed.
Blind men can judge no colours.
Blood is thicker than water.
Blood will have blood.
Books, like friends, should be few and well chosen.
Borrowed garments never fit well.
Brave actions never want a trumpet.
Bread is the staff of life.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Bring up a raven and he'll pick out your eyes.
Burn not your house to rid it of the mouse.
Burnt child dreads the fire.
Business before pleasure.
Business is business.
Business is the salt of life.
Business makes a man as well as tries him.
Business may be troublesome, but idleness is pernicious.
Business neglected is business lost.
Business sweetens pleasure, and labour sweetens rest.
Butter to butter is no relish.
By doing nothing we learn to do ill.
By doing we learn.
By falling we learn to go safely.
By gambling we lose both time and treasure, two things most precious to the life of man.
By other's faults, wise men correct their own.
By reading we enrich the mind; by conversation we polish it.
By the hands of many a great work made light.
By the side of sickness health becomes sweet.
By the street of "Bye and bye" one arrives at the house of "Never".
By writing you learn to write.
Call a spade a spade.
Call me not olive till thou see me gathered.
Call no man happy until he dies.
Can the leopard change his spots?
Care and diligence bring luck.
Care brings grey hair.
Care killed the cat.
Cast not out the foul water till you bring in the clean.
Cast not your pearls before swine.
Catch the bear before you sell his skin.
Cats hide their paws.
Caution is the parent of safety.
Chains of gold are stronger than chains of iron.
Change lays not her hand upon truth.
Charity begins at home, but should not end there.
Cheat's never proper.
Cheek brings success.
Cheerful company shortens the miles.
Cheerfulness and goodwill make labour light.
Childhood shows the man, as morning shows the day.
Children and fools cannot lie.
Children and fools speak the truth.
Children are the parents's riches.
Choice of the end covers choice of the means.
Choose an author as you choose a friend.
Choose a wife rather by your ear than your eye.
Christmas comes but once a year.
Circumstances are therulers of the weak, instrument of the wise.
Civility costs nothing.
Cleanliness is next to godliness.
Clothes make the man.
Come what may, heaven won't fall.
Comfort is better than pride.
Coming events cast their shadows before them.
Compare your grievs with other men's and they will seem less.
Comparisons are odious.
Confession is the first step to repentance.
Confidence of success is almost success.
Conquer of fear of death and you are put into possession of your life.
Constant dropping wears away a stone.
Content is better than riches.
Content is happiness.
Conversation makes one what he is.
Councils of war never fight.
Counsel after action is like rain after harvest.
Counsel must be followed, not praised.
Count not your chickens before they are hatched.
Courage and resolution are the spirit and soul of virtue.
Courtesy costs nothing.
Cowards are cruel.
Credit, like a looking-glass, broken once, is gone, alas!
Creditors have better memories than debtors.
Crows do not pick crow's eyes.
Cry up wine and sell vinegar.
Cry with one eye and laugh with the other.
Curiosity killed the cat.
Custom is a second nature.
Custom is the guide of the ignorant.
Custom makes all things easy.
Custom rules the law.
Custom without reason is but ancient error.
Cut short the nonsense and return to one's muttons.
Cut the coat according to the cloth.
Danger is next neighbour to security.
Danger itself is the best remedy for danger.
Dead men tell no tales.
Death is the grand leveller.
Death meets us everywhere.
Death pays all debts.
Death when it comes will have no denial.
Debt is better than death.
Deeds are fruits; words are but leaves.
Deeds are males, and words are females.
Deeds, no words.
Deep rivers move in silence, shallow brooks are noisy.
Delays are dangerous.
Deliberate before you begin, then execute with vigour.
Deliberate in counsel, prompt in action.
Deliberating is not delaying.
Deliver not your words by number but by weight.
Depend on others and you always repent.
Despair gives courage to a coward.
Destruction pursues the great.
Devil must be driven out with devils.
Dexterity comes by experience.
Diamond cut diamond.
Diet cures more than the doctor.
Diligence is near success.
Diligence is the mother of good luck.
Diligence is the mother of success.
Discontent is the first step in progress.
Discretion is the better part of valour.
Disease, enemy, and debt --these three must be cut off as soon as they begin to grow.
Disease of the soul are more dangerous than those of the body.
Diseases are the price of ill pleasures.
Diseases come on horseback, but go away on foot.
Disgraced may be he who thinks ill.
Do as most men do and men will speak well of thee.
Do as the Romans do(or Do as they do at Rome).
Do as you would be done by.
Do business, but be not a slave to it.
Dog does not eat dog.
Dogs that bark at a distance bite not at hand.
Dogs that run after many hares kill none.
Dogs wag their tails not so much in love to you as your bread.
Doing is better than saying.
Do in Rome as the Romans do.
Do not all you can, spend not all you have; believe not all you hear; and tell not all youknow.
Do not cut down the tree that gives you shade.
Do not despise your enemy.
Do not give a dog bread every time he wags his tail.
Do no through fear of poverty surrender liberty.
Do not praise a day before sunset.
Do not run too fast after gain.
Do not speak of your happiness to one less fortunate than yourself.
Do not swap horses when crossing a stream.
Do not to others what you do not wish them to do to you.
Do not wash dirty linen in public.
Don't cast out the foul water till you bring in the clean.
Don't climb a tree to look for fish.
Don't count your chicken before they are hatched.
Don't cross the bridge till you get to it.
Don't cry out before you are hurt.
Don't fly till you wings are feathered.
Don't halloo till you are out of the wood.
Don't have thy cloak to make when it begins to rain.
Don't keep all your eggs in one basketball.勿孤注一掷。
Don't put off till tomorrow what should be done today.
Don't speak all you know, but know all you speak.
Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs.
Don't throw out your dirty water before you get in fresh.
Don't trouble trouble until trouble troubles you.
Don't whistle until you are out of the wood.
Do one's level best.
Dot the i's and cross the t's.
Doubt is the key of knowledge.
Do well is better than say well.
Downy lips make thoughtless slips.
Draw not your bow till your arrow is fixed.
Draw water with a sieve.
Dream are lies.
Dreams go by contraries.
Drive your business, do not let it drive you.
Drop by drop the oceans are filled; stone by stone the walls are built.
Drowning man will catch at a straw.
Drunken days have all their tomorrows.
Drunkenness reveals what soberness conceals.
Dumb dogs are dangerous.
Dying is as natural as living.
Each bird loves to hear himself sing.
Each day brings its own bread.
Each man is the architect of his own fate.
Eagles catch no flies.
Eagles fly alone, but sheep flock together.
Early mistakes are the seeds of future trouble.
Early sow, early mow.
Early start makes easy stages.
Early to bed and early to rise make a man healthy, wealthy and wise.
Early wed, early dead.
Easier said than done.
East or west, home is best.
Easy come, easy go.
Eat at pleasure, drink with measure.
Eat one's cake and have it.
Eat to live, but not live to eat.
Eat to please thyself, but dress to please others.
Education begins a gentleman, conversation completes him.
Education has for its object the formation of character.
Elbow grease gives the best polish.
Empty vessels make the greatest sound.
Enough is as good as a feast.
Envy assails the noblest, the winds howl around the highest peak.
Equivocation is first cousin to a lie.
Errors, like straws, upon the surface flow; he who would search for pearls must dive below.
Even Homer sometimes nods.
Even the walls have ears.
Every advantage has its disadvantage.
Every bean has its black.
Every bird likes its own nest.
Everybody's business is nobody's business.
Every brave man is a man of his word.
Every bullet has its billet.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every cock crows on its own dunghill.
Every cook praises his own broth.
Every country has its customs.
Every couple is not a pair.
Every day is not Sunday.
Every day of thy life is a leaf in thy history.
Every dog has his day.
Every dog has his day, and every man his hour.
Every dog is a lion at home.
Every dog is valiant at his won door.
Every door may be shut but death's door.
Every extremity is a fault.
Every fool can find faults that wise man cannot remedy.
Every heart has its own sorrow.
Every horse thinks his sack heaviest.
Every Jack has his Jill.
Every little makes a mickle.
Every lover sees a thousand graces in the beloved object.
Every man has a fool in his sleeve.
Every man has his faults.
Every man has his hobby-horse.
Every man has his liking.
Every man has his weak side.
Every man has the defects of his qualities.
Every man is best know to himself.
Every man is the architect of his own fortune.
Every man is the master of his own fortune.
Every man is the son of his own works.
Every man thinks his own geese swans.
Every medal has its reverse.
Every mother's child is handsome.
Everyone is dissatisfied with his own fortune.
Every one's faults are not written in their foreheads.
Every pleasure has a pain.
Every potter praises his own pot.
Every salesman boasts of his own wares.
Every shoe fits not every foot.
Everything comes to him who waits.
Everything has its seed.
Everything has its time and that time must be watched.
Everything hath an end.
Everything is good in its season.
Everything is good when new, but friend when old.
Everything is nice in your garden.
Everything must have a beginning.
Everything new is fine.
Every tide hath its ebb.
Every tree is known by its own fruit.
Every why has a wherefore.
Evil comes to us by ells and goes away by inches.
Evil communications corrupt good manners.
Evil gotten, evil spent.
Example is better than precept.
Exchange is no robbery.
Exercise, temperance, fresh air, and needful rest are the best of all physicians.
Experience is a school from which one can never graduate.
Experience is the best teacher.
Experience is the father of wisdom and memory the mother.
Experience is the mother of wisdom.
Experience keeps a dear school, but fools learn in no other.
Experience keeps no school, she teaches her pupils singly.
Experience must be bought.
Experience teaches.
Experience without learning is better than learning without experience.
Extremes are dangerous.
Extremes meet.
Eye for eye and tooth for tooth.
Facts are stubborn things.
Failure is the mother of success.
Faint heart never wins fair lady.
Fair and softly go far in a day.
Fair faces need no paint.
Faith will move mountains.
Fall sick and you will see who is your friend and who is not.
False friends are worse than open enemies.
False tongue will hardly speak truth.
False with one can be false with two.
Fame is a magnifying glass.
Fame like a river is narrowest at its source and broadest afar off.
Familiar paths and old friends are the best.
Far from eye, far from heart.
Fast bind, fast find.
Fasting comes after feasting.
Fat hens lay few eggs.
Faults are thick where love is thin.
Fear is often greater than the danger.
Fear not the future; weep not for the past.
Feed a cold and starve a fever.
Feed a pig and you'll have a hog.
Feed by measure and defy physician.
Few words are best.
Few words, many deeds.
Fine clothes make the man.
Fine feathers do not make fine birds.
Fine feathers make fine birds.
Fine words butter no parsnips.
Fine words dress ill deeds.
Finished labours are pleasant.
Fire and water are good servants, but bad masters.
Fire proves gold, adversity proves men.
Fire that's closest kept burns most of all.
Fire, water, and money are good servants, but bad masters.
First catch your hare, then cook him.
First come, first served.
First impressions are most lasting.
First think, and then speak.
First try, and then trust.
Fish begins to stink at the head.
Flattery brings friends, but the truth begets enmity.
Follow love and it will flee, flee love and it will follow thee.
Fools grow without watering.
Fool's haste is no speed.
Fools have fortune.
Fools make feasts and wise men eat them.
Fools never know when they are well off.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
Fools will be fools.
Fools will be meddling.
For age and want save while you may; no morning sun lasts a whole day.
For a lost thing care nothing.
Forbidden fruit is sweet.
Force can never destroy right.
Forget not that you are a man.
Forget others' faults by remembering your own.
Forgive and forget.
Forgive others but not yourself.
Fortune favours fools.
Fortune favours the bold.
Fortune is fickle.
Fortune is good to him who knows to make good use of her.
Fortune knocks once at least at every man's door.
Fortune often rewards with interest those that have patience to wait for her.
Fortune smiles upon the brave and frowns upon the coward.
Fortune to one is mother, to another is stepmother.
Four eyes see more than two.
Friendless is the dead.
Friends are like fiddle-strings, they must not be screwed too tight.
Friends are lost by calling often and calling seldom.
Friends are thieves of time.
Friendship cannot stand always on one side.
Friendship is love with understanding.
Friendship multiplies joys and divides griefs.
Friendship ---- one soul in two bodies.
Friendship should not be all on one side.
Friendship the older it grows the stronger it is.
Friends may meet, but mountains never greet.
Friends must part.
From a little spark may burst a mighty flame.
From hearing comes wisdom; from speaking, repentance.
From saving comes having.
From short pleasure long repentance.
From the father comes honour; from the mother, comfort.
Frugality is an estate alone.
Fruit ripens not well in the shade.
Full belies make empty skulls.
Gain got by a lie will burn one's fingers.
Gather ye rosebuds while ye may.
Genius often betrays itself into great errors.
Gifts from enemies are dangerous.
Give a dog a bad name and hang him.
Give a fool rope enough and he will hang himself.
Give a lark to catch a kite.
Give as good as one gets.
Give a thief rope enough and he will hang himself.
Give every man thine ear, but few thy voice.
Give hostages to fortune.
Glory, honour, wealth, and rank, such things are nothing but shadows.
Glory is the shadow of virtue.
God defend me from my friends; form my enemy I can defend myself.
God helps those who help themselves.
God never shuts one door but he opens another.
God sends fortune to fools.
God sends meat and the devil sends cooks.
Go farther and fare worse.
Go for wool and come home shorn.
Gold will not buy everything.
Good children make glad parents.
Good counsel does no harm.
Good counsel never comes amiss.
Good counsel never comes too late.
Good deeds will shine as the stars of heaven.
Good fame is better than a good face.
Good for good every man can do, good for bad only a noble man can do.
Good health is above wealth.
Good news goes on crutches.
Goods are theirs that enjoy them.
Good to begin well, better to end well.
Good watch prevents misfortune.
Good wine needs no bush.
Good wine needs no cries.
Good words and ill deeds decieve wise men and fools.
Good words without deeds are rushes and reeds.
Gossiping and lying go hand in hand.
Go to bed with the lamb and rise with the lark.
Govern your thoughts when alone, and your tongue when in company.
Grain by grain and hen fills her belly.
Grasp all, lose all.
Grasp the nettle and it won't sting you.
Grasp the shadow and let go the substance.
Grasp the thistle firmly.
Great barkers are no biters.
Great boast, small roast.
Great designs require great consideration.
Greatest genius often lies concealed.
Great hopes make great man.
Great men are not always wise.
Great men have great faults.
Great minds think alike.
Great oaks from little acorns grow.
Great souls suffer in silence.
Great talkers are commonly liars.
Great talkers are little doers.
Great talkers are not great doers.
Great winds blow upon high hills.
Habit cures habit.
Habit is second nature.
Half a loaf is better then no bread.
Half a tale is enough for a wise man.
Half the world knows not how the other half lives.
Hang up one's fiddle when one comes home.
Hang up one's hat in another's house.
Happiness consists in contentment.
Happiness takes no account of time.
Happy is he that is happy in childhood.
Happy is he that is happy in his children.
Happy is he who knows his follies in his youth.
Happy is he who owes nothing.
Happy is the man that owes nothing.
Hardships never come alone.
Hard words break no bones, fine words butter no parsnips.
Hares may pull dead lions by the beard.
Harm set, harm get.
Harm watch, harm catch.
Haste makes waste.
Hasty climbers have sudden falls.
Hasty love is soon hot and soon cold.
Hasty love, soon cold.
Hatred is blind as well as love.
Have but few friends though many acquaintances.
Hawks will not pick hawks' eyes out.
He alone is happy who commands his passions.
He alone is poor who does not possess knowledge.
Health and cheerfulness mutually beget each other.
Health and understanding are the two great blessing of life.
Health does not consist with intemperance.
Health is above wealth.
Health is better than wealth.
Health is happiness.
Health is not valued till sickness comes.
Heaven helps those who help themselves.
Heaven's vengeance is slow but sure.
He bears misery best who hides it most.
He can who belive he can.
He dances well to whom fortune pipes.
He deserves not the sweet that will not taste the sour.
Hedges have eyes, and walls have ears.
He dies like a beast who has done no good while he lived.
He gives twice that gives in a trice.
He is a fool who cannot be angry, but he is a wise man who will not.
He is a good friend that speaks well of us behind our backs.
He is a good man whom fortune makes better.
He is a wise man who speaks little.
He is lifeless that is faultless.
He is never alone that is in the company of noble thoughts.
He is not a wise man who cannot play the fool on occasion.
He is not fit to command others that cannot command himself.
He is rich enough who has true friends.
He is rich enough who owes nothing.
He is the wise man who is the honest man.
He is the wisest man who does not think himself so.
He is truly happy who makes others happy.
He is unfortunate who cannot bear misfortune.
He is unworthy to live who lives only for himself.
He is wise that hath wit enough for his own affairs.
He is wise that is honest.
He is wise that knows when he's well enough.
He jests at scars, that never felt a wound.
He knocks boldly at the door who brings good news.
He knows best what good is that has endured evil.
He knows enough that can live and hold his peace.
He knows most who speaks least.
He knows much who knows how to hold his tongue.
He laughs best who laughs last.
He lives long that lives well.
He lives twice who lives well.
He may well be contented who need neither borrow nor flatter.
He most lives who lives most for others.
He must needs go whom the devil drives.
He must needs swim that is held up by the chin.
He preaches best who lives best.
He that boasts of his own knowledge proclaims ignorance.
He that cannot ask cannot live.
He that climbs high falls heavily.
He that commits a fault thinks everyone speaks of it.
He that converses not knows nothing.
He that deceives me once, shame fall him, if he deceives me twice, shame fall me.
He that doth lend, doth lose his friend.
He that doth most at once doth least.
He that doth what he will doth not what he ought.
He that falls today may be up again tomorrow.
He that fears death lives not.
He that fears every bush must never go a-birding.
He that fears you present, will hate you absent.
He that gains time gains all things.
He that gains well and spends well needs no account book.
He that goes to bed thirsty rises healthy.
He that has a full purse never wants a friend.
He that has a great nose thinks everybody is speaking of it.
He that has a tongue in his head may find his way anywhere.
He that has a wife has a master.
He that has no children knows not what is love.
He that hath time hath life.
He that is angry is seldom at ease.
He that is full of himself is very empty.
He that is ill to himself will be good to nobody.
He that is master must serve.
He that is master of himself will soon be master of others.
He that knows nothing, doubts nothing.
He that knows not how to hold his tongue knows not how to talk.
He that lies down with dogs must rise up with fleas.
He that lives long suffers much.
He that lives well is learned enough.
He that liveth wickedly can hardly die honestly.
He that marries for wealth sells his liberty.
He that never climbed never fell.
He that never rode never fell.
He that once deceived is never suspected.
He that returns good for evil obtains the victory.
He that runs fastest gets the ring.
He that serves God for money will serve the devil for better wages.
He that spares the bad injures the good.
He that sups with the devil must have a long spoon.
He that talks much erre much.
He that talks much lies much.
He that travels far knows much.
He that trusts in a lie shall perish in truth.
He that walks with wise men should be wise.
He that will eat the nut must first crack the shell.
He that will have his farm full, must keep an old cock and a young bull.
He that will lie will steal.
He that will not work shall not eat.
He that will steal an egg will steal an ox.
He that will swear will lie.
He that will take the bird must not scare it.
He that will thrive must rise at five.
He that would command must serve.
He that would eat the fruit must climb the tree.
He that would have eggs must endure the cackling of hens.
He that would know what shall be must consider what has been.
He that would live in peace and rest must hear and see, and say the best.
He that would the daughter win, must with the mother first begin.
He warms too near that burns.
He who avoids temptation avoids the sin.
He who blames one to his face is a hero, but he who backbites is a coward.
He who buys what he does not need will often need what he cannot buy.
He who cannot hold his peace will never live at ease.
He who can suppress a moment's anger may prevent a day of sorrow.
He who despises small things seldom grows rich.
He who does no good, does evil enough.
He who does not advance falls backward.
He who does not gain loses.
He who does not honour his wife, dishonours himself.
He who does not rise early never does a good day's work.
He who fears being conquered is sure of defeat.
He who fears to suffer, suffers from fear.
He who follows two hares is sure to catch neither.
He who handles a nettle tenderly is soonest stung.
He who has a mind to beat his dog will easily find his stick.
He who has done ill once will do it again.
He who has health, has hope, and he who has hope, everything.
He who has lost his good name is a dead man among the living.
He who has lost shame is lost to all virtue.
He who has no shame has no conscience.
He who has not tasted bitter knows not what sweet is.
He who hesitates is lost.
He who imagines that he has knowledge enough has none.
He who is afraid of asking is ashamed of learning.
He who is ashamed of asking is ashamed of learning.
He who is born a fool is never cured.
He who knows most speaks least.
He who laughs at crooked men should need walk very straight.
He who likes borrowing dislikes paying.
He who lives by hope will die by hunger.
He who lives in glass house should not throw stones.
He who makes constant complaint gets little compassion.
He who makes himself a dove is eaten by the hawk.
He who makes no mistakes, makes nothing.
He who never was sick dics the first.
He who overcomes his anger subdues his greatest enemy.
He who plays with fire gets burned.
He who pleased everybody died before he was born.
He who purposes to be an author, should first be a student.
He who receives a benefit should never forget it; he who bestows one should never remember it.
He who rides a tiger is afraid to dismount.
He who risks nothing, gains nothing.
He who says what he likes shall hear what he does not like.
He who sees through life and death will meet with most success.
He who shareth honey with the bear hath the least part of it.
He who sows courtesy reaps friendship, and he who plants kindness gathers love.
He who spends more than he should, shall not have to spare when he would.
He who stands alone has no power.
He who touches pitch will be difiled.
He who wants a mule without fault, must walk on foot.
He who wills success is half way to it.
He who would catch fish mush not mind getting wet.
He who would climb the ladder must begin at the bottom.
He who would search for pearls must dive below(or deep).
He will always be a slave who knows not how to earn and save.
He works best who knows his trade.
Hide nothing from thy physician.
Hide one's talents in a napkin.
His heart cannot be pure whose tongue is not clear.
History repeats itself.
Hoist your sail when the wind is fair.
Hold fast when you have it.
Hold (or Run) with the hare and run (or hunt) with the hounds.
Home is home, though never so homely.
Honest men marry soon, wise men not at all.
Honesty is the best policy.
Honesty may be dear bought, but can never be an ill penny-worth.
Honey is sweet, but the bee stings.
Honour and profit lie not in one sack.
Honours change manners.
Honour to whom honour is due.
Hope deferred makes the heart sick.
Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst.
Hope is a good breakfast, but a bad supper.
Hope is but the dream of those that wake.
Hope is life and life is hope.
Hope often deludes the foolish man.
Hope springs eternal (in the human breast).
How shall I do to love?
Human pride is human weakness.
Humility is the foundation of all virtue.
Humility often gains more than pride.
Hunger breaks stone wall.
Hunger fetches the wolf out of the woods.
Hunger finds no fault with the cookery.
Hunger is the best sauce.
Hunger knows no friend.
Hunger will relish the plainest fare.
Hungry belies have no ears.
Hungry dogs will eat dirty puddings.
I am cought between the devil and the deep blue sea.
I am not a slave, I am not a captive, and by energy I can overcome the greater obstacles.
I am not now that which I have been.
I am not only witty in myself, but the cause that wit is in other men.
I believe the first test of truly great man is his humility.
I cannot be your friend and your flatterer too.
I count myself in nothing else so happy as in a soul remem-bering my good friends.
Ideals are like the stars -- we never reach them, but like mariners, we chart our course by them.
Idle folks have most labour.
Idle folks lack no excuses.
Idleness is the key of beggary, and the root of all evil.
Idleness is the root (or mother) of all evil (or sin or vice).
Idleness is the rust of the mind.
Idleness rusts the mind.
Idle young, needy old.
If a donkey bray at you, don't bray at him.
If a man empties his purse into his head, no man can take it away from him.
If a man will begin with certainties, he shall end in doubts, but if he will be content to begin with doubts, he shall end in certaintics.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
If doctors fail thee, be these three thy doctors; rest, cheerful-ness, and moderate diet.
If each would sweep before his own door, we should have a clean city (or street).
I fear the Greeks, even when bringing gifts.
If I take care of my character, my reputation will take care of itself.
If it is not right, do not do it; if it is not true, do not say it.
If it were not for hope, the heart would break.
If matters not how a man dies, but how he lives.
If money be not thy servant, it will be thy master.
If nobody loves you, be sure it is your own fault.
If one desires to succeed in anything, he must pay the price.
If the beard were all, the goat might preach.
If the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.
If the counsel be good no matter who gave it.
If the eye do no admire, the heart will not desire.
If the old dog barks, he gives counsel.
If the pills were pleasant, they would not be gilded.
If there be neither snow nor rain, then will be dear all sorts of grain.
If there were no clouds, we should not enjoy the sun.
If the sky fll (or falls), we shall catch larks.
If they say you are good, ask yourself if it be ture.
If things were to be done twice all would be wise.
If two men ride on a horse, one must ride behind.
If we are bound to forgive an enemy we are not bound to trust him.
If we cannot get what we like, we have to like what we can get.
If wise men play the fool, they do it with a vengeance.
If wishes were horses, beggars might ride.
If you agree to carry the calf, they'll make you carry the cow.
If you are too fortunate, you will not know yourself; if you are too unfortunate, nobody will know you.
If you can be well without health you may be happy without virtue.
If you cannot bite, never show your teeth.
If you cannot have the best, make the best of what you have.
If you command wisely, you'll be obeyed cheerfully.
If you confer a benefit, never remember it; if you receive one, remember it always.
If you dance you must pay the fiddler.
If you don't aim high you will never hit high.
If you have no hand, you cannot make a fist.
If you lie upon roses when young, you'll lie upon thorns when old.
If you live with a lame person, you will learn to limp.
If you remove stone by stone, even a mountain will be levelled.
If you run after two heares, you will catch neither.
If you sell the cow, you sell her milk too.
If you swear you will catch no fish.
If you trust before you try, you may repent before you die.
If you want a pretence to whip a dog, say that he ate the frying-pam.
If you want a thing (well) done, do it yourself.
If you want knwledge, you must toil for it.
If you wish for peace, be prepared for war.
If you wish good advice, consult an old man.
If you would build for your happiness a sure foundation, let the stone for the corner be a good reputation.
If you would have a good wife marry one who has been a good daughter.
If you would have a thing well done, do it yourself.
If you would know the value of money, go and try to borrow some, for the that goes a-borrowing goes a-sorrowing.
If you would make an enemy, lend a man money and ask it of him again.
Ignorance is the mother of impudence.
Ignorance is the mother of suspicions.
Ignorance of the law excuses no man.
I hate to see things done by halves.
I have no secret of success but hard work.
I know him not should I meet him in my pottage dish.
I know no such thing as genius, it is nothing but labour and diligence.
Ill air slays sooner thant the sword.
Ill-gotten goods never prosper.
Ill-gotten wealth never thrives.
Ill news comes space.
Ill news flies fast.
Ill news never comes too late 坏消息来得快。
Ill news travels fast.
Ill (or Evil) gotten, ill (or evil) spent.
Imagination is more important than knowledge.
Imagination is sometimes more vivid than reality.
Imagination is the source of creation.
I might say that success is won by three things: first, effort; second, more effort; third, still more effort.
Improve your time and your time will improve you.
In a calm sea, every man is a pilot.
In a great river great fish are found; but take heed lest you be drowned.
In all things, it is better to hope than to despair.
In an enemy spots are soon seen.
In books, are embalmed the greatest thoughts of all ages.
In doing we learn.
Industry if fortune's right hand, and frugality her left.
Industry keeps the body healthy, the mind clear, the heart whole, the purse full.
In every beginning think of the end.
In every country dogs bite.
In every rank, great or small, 'Tis industry supports us all.
In for a penny, in for a pound 一不做，二不休。
In good years corn is hay, in ill years straw is corn.
In life, as in chess, forethought wins 人生如下棋，多谋得胜利。
In life's earnest battle they only prevail, who daily march onward and never say fail.
In moderating, not satisfying, desires, lies peace.
I now know that wars do not end wars.
In prosperity caution, in adversity patience.
In prosperity think of adversity.
Interest will not lie.
In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider.
In the deepest water is the best fishing.
In the election of a wife, as in a project of war, to err but once is to be undone for ever.
In the end things will mend.
In the evening one may praise the day.
In the grave the rich and poor lie equal.
In the kingdom of blind men the one-eyed man is king.
In the mirror we see the face; in wine, the heart.
In the multitude of counsellors there is safety.
In the world, who knows not to swim goes to the bottom.
In time of peace prepare for war.
In time of prosperity, friends will be plenty; In time of adversity, not one amongst twenty.
In water you may see your own face; in wine, the heart of another 水中可见自己的脸，酒中可见别人的心。
In wine there is truth.
In youth the hours are golden in mature years they are silver, in old age they are leaden.
I only regret that I have but one life to give for my country.
I regard that man as lost, who has lost his sense of shame.
I say little but I think the more.
I slept, and dreamt that life was Beauty, I woke, and found that life was Duty.
I succeeded because I willed it; I never hesitated.
It is a good horse that never stumbles.
It is a good tongue that says no ill, and a better heart that thinks none.
It is a great art to laugh at your own misfortune.
It is a long lane that has no turning.
It is an equal failing to trust everybody and trust nobody.
It is an evil sign too see a fox lick a lamb.
It is an ill bird that fouls its own nest.
It is a poor heart that never rejoices.
It is a silly fish, that is caught twice with the same bait.
It is a silly goose that comes to the fox's sermon.
It is a small flock that has not a black sheep.
It is as well to know which way the wind blows.
It is a wise father that knows his own child.
It is better to be alone than in bad company.
It is better to be clothed in rags, than to be clothed with shame.
It is better to be safe than sorry.
It is better to do well than to say well.
It is better to fight for good than to rail at the ill.
It is better to please a fool than to anger him.
It is better to wear out than to rust out.
It is dangerous crisis when a proud heart meets with flattering lips 骄傲的心碰上献媚的嘴，是最危险不过的。
It is dogged (that) does it.
It is easier to descend than to ascend.
It is easier to give good counsel than to follow it.
It is easier to pull down than build.
It is easier to raise the devil than to lay him.
It is easy to be wise after the event.
It is easy to learn something about everything, but difficult to learn everything about anything.
It is easy to open a shop but hard to keep it always open.
It is easy to prophesy after the event.
It is good fishing in troubled waters.
It is good to be merry at meal.
It is good to have friends in trouble.
It is good to learn at another man's cost.
It is harder to marry a daughter well than to bring her up well.
It is hard to please all parties.
It is impossible that a man who is false to his friends should be true to his country.
It is more blessed to give than to receive.
It is more pain to do nothing than something.
It is my own fault if I am deceived by the same man twice.
It is no honour for an eagle to vanquish a dove.
It is not every couple that is a pair.
It is not good to make a sleeping lion.
It is not helps, but obstaceles, not facilities but difficulties, that make men.
It is not how long but how well we live.
It is not shame for a man to learn that which he knows not, whatever be his age.
It is not the gay coat that makes the gentleman.
It is not work that kills, but worry.
It is no use crying over spilt milk.
It is one thing to speak much and another to speak pertinently.
It is right to put everything in its proper use.
It is the first step that costs.
It is the general rule, that all superior men inherit the elements ofsuperiority from their mother.
It is the nature of every man to err, but only the fool perseveres in the error.
It is the nature of folly to see the faults of others and forget his own.
It is the peculiarity of knowledge that those who really thirst for it always get it.
It is too late to cast anchor when the ship is on the rock.
It is too late to come with the water when the house is burnt down.
It is too late to lock the stable door when the steed is stolen.
It is wisdom sometimes to seem a fool.
It matters not how long we live but how.
It never rains but it pours.
It's a good horse that never stumbles, A good wife that never grumbles.
It's a poor heart that never rejoices.
It's a poor mouse that has only on hole.
It's earier to run down the hill than go up.
It's easy to fall into a trap, but hard to get out again.
It's hard sailing when there is no wind.
It's no sin to sell dear, but a sin to give ill measure.
It's not the gay coat that makes the gentleman.
It's no use pumping a dry well.
It takes all sorts to make a world.
It takes two to make a quarrel.
I was born anAmerican; I live an American; I shall die an American.
I wept when I was born,, and every day shows why.
I would rather be a poor man in a garret with plenty of good books to read than a king who did not love reading 宁为穷汉住搁楼，拥有好书任我读，不愿身居帝王位，纵有好书不爱读。
I would rather have the affectionate regard of my fellow men than I would have heaps and mines of gold.
Jack of all trades and master of none.
Jack of all trades is of no trade.
Jadge not a book by its cover.
Jest with an ass and he will flap you in the face with his tail.
Joy and sorrow are next-door neighbours.
Joy often comes after sorrow, like morning after night.
Joy put heart into a man.
Joy shared with others are more enjoyed.
Judge not according to the appearance.
Judge not of men and things at first sight.
Justice has long arms.
Keep good men company, and you shall be of the number.
Keeping is harder than winning.
Keep some till more come.
Keep thing seven years and you will find a use for it.
Keep your breath to cool your porridge.
Keep your eyes wide open before marriage, and half shut afterwards.
Keep your mouth shut and your eyes open.
Kill the goose that laid the golden egg.
Kind hearts are more than coronets.
Kindness always begets kindness.
Kindness is the golden chain by which society is bound together.
Kindness is the language that the deaf can hear and the dumb understand.
Kindness is the sunshine of social life.
Kindness will creep where it may not go.
Kind words are the music of the world.
Kind words are worth much and cost little.
Kind words butter no parsnips.
Kinsman helps kinsman, but woe to him that hath nothing.
Knavery may serve, but honestyis best.
Knowledge advances by steps not by leaps.
Knowledge comes from experience alone.
Knowledge is a comfortable and necessary retreat and shelter for us in an advanced age; and if we do not plant it when young, it will give us no shade when we grow old.
Knowledge is a treasure, but practice is the key to it.
Knowledge is long, life is short.
Knowledge is of two kinds, we know a subject ourselves, or we know where we can find information upon it.
Knowledge is power.
Knowledge is the antidote to fear.
Knowledge is the most precious treasure of all things, because it can never be given away, nor stolen nor consumed.
Knowledge makes humble; ignorance makes proud.
Knowledge will not be aquired without pain and application.
Knowledge without practice makes but half an artist.
Know something like the palm of one's hand.
Know something of everything and everything of something.
Know thyself.
Labour is light where love doth pay.
Labour is often the father of pleasure.
Labour is the capital of our working men.
Lack of knowledge is darker than night.
Late repentance is seldom true.
Laugh and grow fat.
Laugh, and the world laughs with you; weep, and you weep alone.
Laugh at your ills, And save doctors' bills.
Laugh before breakfast you'll cry before supper.
Law makers should not be law breakers.
Laws catch flies but let hornets go free.
Lawsuits consume time, and money, and rest, and friends.
Lazy folks take the most pains.
Learning is an ornament in prosperity, a refuge in adversity, and a provision in old age.
Learning is wealth to the poor, an honour to the rich, an aid to the young, and a support and comfort to the aged.
Learning makes a good man better and ill man worse.
Learning without thought is labour lost; thought without learning is perilous.
Learn to creep before you leap.
Learn to say before you sing.
Learn to suffer without complaining; that is the best thing I can teach you.
Learn to walk before you run.
Learn wisdom by the follies of others.
Learn young, learn fair.
Least said, soonest mended.
Lend your money and lose your friend.
Let beggars match with beggars.
Let bygones be bygones.
Let difficulties occur but not the loss of courage.
Let every man praise the bridge he goes over.
Let every man speak well of the bridge theat carries him over.
Let every tub stand on its own bottom.
Let not the cobbler go beyond his last.
Let not the sun go down upon thy wrath.
Let our object be our courtry, our whole country, and nothing but our country.
Let's cross the bridge when we come to it.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Let the cobbler stick to his last.
Let the dead bury the dead.
Let the hands get busy, not the mouth.
Let things take their course.
Let your yea be yea and your nay be nay.
Liars have need of good memories.
Liars should have good memories.
Liberty consists in the power of doing that which is permitted by law.
Liberty is not licence.
Liberty often degenerates into lawlessness.
Lie in (oron) the bed one has made.
Lies have short legs.
Life if made up of little things.
Life is a battle from cradle to grave.
Life is a comedy to him who thinks and a tragedy to him who feels.
Life is a flower of which love is the honey.
Life is a shuttle 生活犹如梭子。
Life is but a span.
Life is compared to voyage.
Life is half spent before we know what it is.
Life is long if you know how to use it.
Life is measured by thought and action, not by time.
Life is not all beer and skittles.
Life is not so short but there is time enougn for courtesy.
Life is short and time is fleeting 人生短暂，光阴易逝。
Life is sweet.
Life, to be worthy of a rational being, must be always in progression.
Life without a friend is death without a witness.
Lightly come, lightly go.
Light troubles speak; great troubles are silent.
Like attracts like.
Like author, like book.
Like begets like.
Like cow, like calf.
Like cures like.
Like draws to like.
Like draws to like the whole world over.
Like father, like son.
Like knows like.
Like mother, like daughter.
Like teacher, like pupil.
Like tree, like fruit.
Littel chips light great fires.
Little boats must keep the shores.
Little bodies may have great souls.
Little pigeons can carry great messages.
Little pitchers have great (or large) ears.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Little thieves are hanged, but great one's escape.
Little things amuse little minds.
Little wealth, little care.
Live and learn.
Live and let live.
Live to learn and learn to live.
Living without an aim is like sailing without a compass.
Lock the stable door before the steed is stolen.
Loftiest trees most dread the thunder.
Long absent, soon forgotten.
Long tarrying takes all the thanks away.
Look at the world through rose-coloured glasses.
Look before you leap; see before you go.
Lookers-on see more than players.
Lookers-on see most of the games.
Look for a needle in a bundle (or bottle) of hay.
Look not for musk in dog's kennel.
Lose not time; be always employed in something useful; cut off all unnecessary actions.
Losers are always in the wrong.
Losses make us more cautious 损失使人更谨慎。
Lost time is never found again, and what we call time enough always proves little enough.
Lost wealth can be replaced by industry, lost knowledge by study, lost health by temperance or medicine, but lost time is gone for ever.
Love all, trust a few, be false to none.
Love and business teach eloquence.
Love and cough cannot be hid.
Love and poverty are hard to hide.
Love asks faith, and faith asks firmness.
Love begets love.
Love cannot be forced 爱情不强求。
Love can turn the cottage into a golden palace.
Love comes by looking.
Love does much, money does everything (ormore).
Love fears no danger.
Love grows with obstacles.
Love is a sweet torment.
Love is a sweet tyranny, because the lover endures his torment willingly.
Love is blind.
Love is full of trouble.
Love is like the moon; when it does not increase it decreases.
Love is neither bought nor sold.
Love is never without jealousy.
Love is not to be found in the market.
Love is sweet in the beginning but sour in the ending.
Love is the mother oflove.
Love is the reward of love.
Love is the touchstone of virtue.
Love is the true price of love.
Love is without reason.
Love laughs at locksmith 春闺锁不住。
Love lives in cottages as well as in courts.
Love looks with telescope; envy with microscope.
Love makes all equal.
Love makes all hard hearts gentle.
Love makes obedience easy.
Love makes one fit for any work.
Love makes the world go round.
Love me little and love me long.
Love me, love my dog.
Love needs no teaching.
Love not at the first look.
Lovers live by love, as larks live by leeks.
Love rules his kingdom without a word.
Love rules without a sword and bind without a cord.
Love should not be all on one side.
Love sought is good, but given unsought is better.
Love thy neighbours as thyself.
Love understands love; it needs no talk.
Love will find out the way.
Love your neighbour, yet pull not down your hedge.
Lying is the first step to the gallows.
Lying rides upon debt's back.
Maidens should (or must) be mild and meek, swift to hear and slow to speak.
Make all you can, save all you can, give all you can.
Make haste slowly.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Make the best of a bad business (or job or bargain) 身处山穷水尽，力争柳暗花明。
Make the night night, and the day day, and you will have a pleasant time of it.
Make your enemy your friend.
Make yourself necessary to someone.
Man alone is born crying, lives complaining, and dies disappointed.
Man has not a greater enemy than himself.
Man is a tool-using animal.
Man is mortal.
Man is not the creature of circumstances; circumstances are the creature of man.
Man is the artificer of his own happiness.
Manners make the man.
Man proposes, God disposes.
Man's best plans often miscrarry.
Man's best possession is a loving wife.
Man will conquer nature.
Many a fine dish has nothing on it.
Many a flower is born to blush unseen.
Many a good cow hath a bad calf.
Many a good father hath but a bad son.
Many a little (or pickle) makes a mickle.
Many ants kill the horse.
Many a true word is spoken in jest.
Many dishes, many diseases.
Many drops makes a shower.
Many great men have arisen from humble beginnings.
Many hands are better than one.
Many hands make a burden lighter.
Many hands make light (or quick) work.
Many have suffered for talking, none ever suffered for keeping silence.
Many heads are better than one.
Many kiss the baby for the nurse's sake.
Many men, many minds.
Many one says well that thinks ill.
Many receive advice only the wise profit by it.
Many sands will sink a ship.
Many straws may bind an elephant.
Many wells, many buckets.
Many words cut (or hurt) more than swords.
March comes in like a lion and goes out like a lamb.
Marriaage is the bloom or blight of all men's happiness.
Marriage!
Marriage comes by destiny.
Marriage goes by contrasts.
Marriage is a lottery.
Marriage is a lottery with more blanks than prizes.
Marriage makes or mars a man.
Marry in haste, and repent at leisure.
Marry in lent, and you'll live to repent.
Marry your son when you will, your daughter when you .
Master should be soetimes blind and sometimes deaf.
Measure another's corn by one's own bushel.
Measure for measure.
Measure is treasure.
Measure thrice before you cut once.
Medicines are not meant to live on.
Men are mortal.
Men, at soome time, are masters of their fates.
Men know where they were born, not where they shall die.
Men love to hear well of themselves.
Men may meet but mountains never.
Men of courage, men of sense, and menof letters are frequent: but a true gentleman is what one seldom seen.
Men too seldom see their own faults.
Mere words will not fill a bushel.
Merry is he that hath nought to lose.
Merry meet, merry part.
Method will teach you to win time 方法可教会你赢得时间。
Mickle power makes many enemies.
Might is (or makes or overcomes) right.
Mills of God grind slowly but sure.
Miracels are to those who believe in them.
Mischief has swift wings.
Misers put their back and their belly into their pockets.
Misery acquaints men with strange bedfellows.
Misery loves company.
Misery makes strange bedfellows.
Misfortune comes on wings and departs on foot.
Misfortune is a good teacher.
Misfortunes come at night.
Misfortunes (or Hardships) never (or seldom) come alone (or singly).
Misfortunes tell us what fortune is.
Misfortunes test the sincerity of friends.
Misforunes come on horseback and go away on foot.
Mock not a cobbler for his black thumbs.
Moderation in all things is the best of rules.
Modesty is not only and ornament, but also a guard to virtue.
Modesty is the ornament of woman.
Money answers all things.
Money begets (or breeds or gets) money.
Money borrowed is soon sorrowed 债台高筑，愁上心头。
Money burns a hole in his pocket.
Money calls, but does not stay: It is round and rolls sway.
Money can buy the devil himself.
Money can move even the gods.
Money doesn't grow on trees.
Money has no smell.
Money is a bottomless sea, in which honour, conscience, and truth may be drowned.
Money is a good servant, but a bad master.
Money is neither good nor bad, but all depends on what use is made of it.
Money is often lost for want of money.
Money is something, but no everything.
Money is the key that opens all doors.
Money is the root of all evil.
Money is the sinews of war.
Money makes the mare to go.
Money often unmakes the men who make it.
Money spent on the brain is never spent in vain.
Money talks.
More die by food than by famine.
More haste, less speed.
More of our worries come from within than from without.
More worship the rising than the setting sun.
Most things have two handles.
Mother's darlings are but milksop heroes.
Mountains look beautiful from a distance.
Much cry and little wool.
Much water runs by the mill that the miller knows not of.
Much will have more.
Murder will out.
Music hath charms to soothe the savage beast.
Music is the eye of the ear.
Music is the medicine of the breaking heart.
Music washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.
My son is my son, till he hath got him a wife; but my daughter's my daughter all the days of her life.
Napolean himself was once a crying baby.
Nature abhors a vacuum.
Nature has given us two ears, two eyes, and but one tongue, to the end that we should hear and see more than we speak.
Nature is the glass reflecting truth.
Nature teaches us to love our friends but religion our enemies.
Nature, time, and patience are the three great physicians.
Nature will have its course.
Naughty boys sometimmmes make good men.
Necessity and oportunity may make a coward valient.
Necessity is the mother of invention 穷则变，变则通。
Necessity knows no law.
Necessity (or Need) has (or knows) no law.
Need makes the old wife trot.
Needs must when the devil drives.
Neglect of health is doctor's wealth.
Never be weary of well doing.
Never cackle till your egg is laid.
Never cast dirt into that fountain of which thou hast sometime durnk.
Never do things by halves.
Never embark on what comes after without having mastered what goes before.
Never fry a fish till it's caught.
Never judge by appearances.
Never neglect an opportunity for improvement.
Never offer to teach fish to swim.
Never (or Don't) trouble trouble till trouble troulbes you.
Never put off till tomorrow what may be done today.
Never put the plow before the oxen.
Never say die!
Never say of another what you would not have him hear.
Never show the bottom of your purse or your mind.
Never swap (or swop) horses while crossing the stream.
Never think yourself above your business.
Never too late to mend.
Never too late to repent.
Never too old (or late) to learn.
Never trust another what you should do yourself.
Never trust of fine words.
New brooms sweep clean.
New lords, new laws.
News is like fish.
Newspapers are the world's mirrors.
Nightingales will not sing in a cage.
No answer is also answer.
No bees, no honey; no work, no money.
No cross, no crown.
No gains without pains.
No garden without its weeds.
No good building without a good foundation.
No great loss without some small gain.
No herb will cure love.
No joy without annoy.
No living man all things can.
No longer pipe, no longer dance.
No love is foul, nor prison fair.
No man can be a good ruler unless he has first been ruled.
No man can do two things at once.
No man can make a good coat with bad cloth.
No man ever became great or good except through many and great mistakes.
No man ever became thoroughly bad at once.
No man ever yet became great by imitation.
No man is a hero to his valet.
No man is content.
No man is so old, but thinks he may yet live another year.
No man is the worst for knowing the worst of himself.
No man knows when he shall die, although he knows he must die.
No man learns but by pain or shame.
No man loves his fetters be they made of gold.
No man (or one) is born wise or learned.
No man (or one) is wise at all times.
No money, no honey.
None are so deaf as those who will not hear.
None but a wise man can employ leisure well.
None but the brave deserve the fair.
None but the wearer knows where the shoe pinches.
None knows the weight of another's burden.
None preaches better than the ant, and she says nothing.
None so blind as those who won't see.
None so deaf as those that won't hear.
No news is good news.
No one can be perfectly free till all are free; no one can be perfectlymoral till all are moral; no one can be perfectly happy till all are happy.
No one can call back yesterday.
No one can disgrace us but ourselves.
No one can have all he desires.
No one is a fool always, every one sometimes.
No one is wise at all times.
No one (or man) is born wise or learned.
No pain, no palm; no thorns, no throne; no gall, no glory; no cross, no crown.
No pains, no gains.
No piper can please all ears.
No pleasure without alloy (or pain or repentance).
No possession, but use, is the only riches.
No practice, no gain in one's wit.
Nor fame I slight, nor for her favours call; she come unlooked for, if she comes at all.
No road is long with good company.
No root, no fruit.
No rose without a thorn.
No rule without an exception.
No safe wading in an unknown water.
No smoke without some fire.
No song, no supper.
No sooner said than done.
No sunshine but bath some shadow.
No sweat, no sweet.
No sweet without some sweat.
Nothing brave, nothing have.
Nothing comes amiss to a hungry man.
Nothing comes from (or of) nothing.
Nothing comes out of the sack but what was in it.
Nothing comes wrong to a hungry man.
Nothing crave, nothing have.
Nothing for nothing and very little for a half penny.
Nothing is difficult to a man who wills.
Nothing is impossible (or difficult) to the man who will try.
Nothing is impossible to willing mind (or heart).
Nothing is really beautiful but truth.
Nothing is stolen without hands.
Nothing must be done hastily but killing of fleas.
Nothing seek, nothing find.
Nothing so bad, as not to be good for something.
Nothing so necessary for travellers as languages.
Nothing succeeds like success.
Nothing to be got without pains but poverty.
Nothing venture, nothing win (or have or gain).
Nothing will come of nothing.
No time like the present.
Not let the grass grow under one's feet.
Novelty is the great parent of pleasure.
No vice goes alone.
No way is impossible to courage 勇敢面前没有通不过的路。
No wisdom like silence.
Now or never.
No wrong without remedy.
Oaks may fall when reeds stand the storm.
Obedience is the first duty of a soldier.
Observation is the best teacher.
Of all the possessions of this life fame is the noblest; when the body has sunk into the dust the great name still lives.
Of earthly goods the best is a good wife.
Offence is the best defence.
Of nothing comes nothing.
Often and little eating makes a man fat.
Of two evils choose the least.
Of young men die many, of old men escape not any.
Old bees yield no honey.
Old birds are not caught with new nests.
Old birds are not to be caught with shaff.
Older and wiser.
Old foxes want no tutors.
Old friends and old wine are best.
Old love will not be forgotten.
Old vessels must leak.
Old wood best to burn, old wine to drink, old friends to trust, and old authors to read.
Old wood is best to burn, old book to read.
Old wood is best to burn, old horse to ride.
O liberty, how many crimes have been committed in thy name!
Omelets are not made without breaking eggs.
Once a devil, always a devil.
Once a knave, ever a knave.
Once a man and twice a child.
Once bit, twice shy.
Once is no custom.
Once on shore, we pray no more.
On earth there is nothing great but man, in man there is nothing great but mind.
One barking dog sets all street a-barking.
One beats the bush, and another catches the birds.
One boy is more trouble than a dozen girls.
One cannot always be a hero, but one can always be a man.
One cannot be in two place at once.
One cannot do a foolish thing once in one's life, but one must hear of it a hundred times.
One cannot eat one's cake and have it.
One cannot get blood from a stone.
One cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
One cannot make bricks without straw.
One cannot put back the clock.
One chick keeps a hen busy.
One cloud is enough to eclipse all the sun.
One crowded hour of glorious life is worth an age without a name.
One drop of poison infects the whole tun of wine.
One enemy can do more hurt than ten friends can do good.
One enemy is too much.
One false move may lose the game.
One false step will make a great difference.
One father can support ten children, ten children cannot support one father.
One father is more than a hundred schoolmasters.
One flower makes no garland.
One foe is too many; and a hundred friends too few.
One fool makes many.
One foot is better than two crutches.
One good head is better than a hundred strong hands.
One good mother is worth a hundred schoolmasters.
One good turn deserves another.
One half of the world does not know how the other half lives.
One has lived too near a wood to be frightened by owls.
One honest word is better than two oaths.
One hour's sleep before midnight is worth three after.
One hour today is worth two tomorrow.
One love drives out another.
One man makes a chair and another man sits in it.
One man may steal a horse while another may not look over a hedge.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
One may sooner fall than rise.
One may think that dares not speak.
One misfortune comes on the neck of another.
One must draw the line somewhere.
One must drink as one brews.
One must howl with the wolves.
One never loses anything by politeness.
One never loses by doing a good turn.
One penny witgh right is better than a thousand without right.
One ploughs, another sow; who will reap no one knows.
One rotten apple spoils the whole barrel.
One should eat to live, not live to eat.
One sin opens the door for another.
One's mantle falls on somebody.
One sows another reaps.
One swallow does not make a summer.
One thorn of experience is worth a whole wilderness of warning.
One today is worth two tomorrows.
One who can do everything can do nothing.
One woe doth tread upon another's heels.
One wrong (or false) move can lose the whole game.
One wrong thought may cause a lifelong regret.
Only that which is honestly got is gain.
Only they who fulfill their duty in everday matters will fulfill them on great occasions.
On the choice of friends.
On the great clock of time there is but one word, "Now." 在伟大的时钟上，只有一个词，就是“现在”。
Open confession is good for the soul.
Open not your door when the devil knocks.
Opportunity makes the thief.
Opportunity seldom knocks twice.
Opportunity, sooner or later, comes to all who work and wish.
Other men live to eat, while I eat to live.
Our affections are our life.
Our best friends are they who tell us our faults and help us to mend them.
Our bravest and best lessons are not learnt through success, but through misadventure.
Our greatest glory consists not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.
Our happiness consists not in killing others, but in sacrificing ourselves for others.
Our own actions are our security, not others' judgements.
Our sweetest songs are those that tell of saddest thought.
Out of debt, out of danger.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Overdone is worse than undone.
Paddle your own canoe.
Pain is forgotten where gain follows.
Pardoning the bad is injuring the good.
Patience and application will carry us through.
Patience is a flower that grows not in everyone's garden.
Patience is a plaster for all sores.
Patience is a virtue.
Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet.
Patience is the best remedy (or medicine).
Patience, time, and money overcome everything.
Pay somebody back in his own coin.
Peace on earth and good will towards men.
Peace with sword in hand, 'tis safest making.
Pen and ink is wit's plough.
Penny and penny laid up will be many.
Penny wise and pound foolish.
People do not lack strength; they lack will.
Perseverance is failing nineteen times and succeeding the twentieth.
Perseverance is vital to success.
Pitchers/Walls have ears.
Pity is akin to love.
Plants of learning must be watered with the rain of tears.
Pleasant hours fly fast.
Pleasing everybody is pleasing nobody.
Pleasure has a sting in its tail.
Plenty is no plague.
Poetry is simply the most beautiful, impressive and widely effective mode of saying things, and hence its importance.
Poets are the unacknowledged legislators of the world.
Politeness costs nothing and gains everything.
Politeness is to do and say the kindest thing in the kindest way.
Poor men's words have little weight.
Poverty breeds strife.
Poverty is apain, but no disgrace.
Poverty is no shame, laziness is.
Poverty is no sin.
Poverty is not a shame, but the being ashamed of it is.
Poverty is not a sufficient cause of disgrace, but poverty without resolution to help oneself is a disgrace.
Poverty is the mother of all arts.
Poverty is the mother of health.
Poverty is the reward of idleness.
Poverty is the root of all evils.
Poverty on an old man's back is a heavy burden.
Poverty shows us who are our friends and who are our enemies.
Poverty tries friends.
Practice is better than precept.
Practice makes perfect.
Practice what you preach.
Praise is not pudding.
Praise makes good men better, and bad men worse.
Praise no man till he is dead.
Preachers can talk but never teach, Unless they practise what they preach.
Prepare for a rain day.
Prevention is better than cure.
Pride and grace dwelt never in one place.
Pride apes humility.
Pride goes before a fall.
Pride goeth before, and shame cometh after.
Pride may lurk under a threadbare cloak.
Pride must be pinched.
Pride will have a fall.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
Progress is the activity of today and the assurance of tomorrow.
Promise is debt.
Promise little but do much.
Prosperity discovers vices and adversity virtues.
Prosperity gains (or makes) friends, and adversity tries them.
Proverbs are short sentences drawn from long experience.
Proverbs are the cream of a nation's thought.
Proverbs are the wisdom of the ages.
Prove thy friends ere thou have need.
Provide for the worst, the best will save itself.
Providence is always on the side of the strongest battalions.
Punctuality is the soul of business.
Purpose supposes foresight.
Put not your hand between the bark and the tree.
Put (or Lay or Set) one's shoulder to the wheel.
Put the cart before the horse.
Put the shoe on the right foot.
Quality is better than quantity.
Quality matters more than quanity.
Quarrels of lovers but renew their love.
Quick at meal, quick at work.
Quick feet and busy hands fill the mouth.
Quietness is best.
Quietude is the crown of life.
Rain before seven; fine before eleven.
Rain comes after sunshine, and after a dark cloud, a clear sky.
Rats leave (or desert or forsake) a sinking ship.
Readiness is all.
Reading is to the mind what exercise is to the body.
Reading makes a full amn, meditation a profound man, discourse a clear man.
Reading maketh a full man, conference a ready man, and writing an exact man.
Read not books alone, but men.
Ready money is a ready medicine.
Real knowledge, like everything else of value, is not to be obtained easily, it must be worked for, studied for, thought for, and more than all, must be prayed for.
Reap as (or what) one has sown.
Rear sons for help in old age; and store up grains against famine.
Reason binds the man.
Reason deceives us often, conscience never.
Reason governs the wise man a cudgels the fool.
Reason is the guide and light of life.
Reason rules all things.
Reckless youth makes rueful age.
Remember thou are but a man.
Repentance is good, but innocence is better.
Repetition is the mother of knowledge.
Reputation is often got without merit and lost without fault.
Resolve to perform what you ought; perform without fail what you resolve.
Respect yourself, or no one else will respect you.
Responsibility must be shouldered; you cannot carry it under your arms.
Rest breeds rust.
Revolutions are not made with rose water.
Riches do not always bring happiness.
Riches either serve or govern the possessor.
Riches have wings.
Riches serve a wise man but command a fool.
Rivers need a spring.
Roll my log and I'll roll yours.
Rome was not built in a (or one) day.
Run (or Hold) with the hare and hunt (or run) with the hounds.
Take a hair of the dog that bit you.
Take a pain for a pleasure all wise men can.
Take away my good name and take away my life.
Take care of small sums and the large will take care of themselves.
Take care of the pence and the pounds will take care of themselves.
Take care of the sense, and the sounds will take care of themselves.
Take honour from me and my life is undone.
Take one's courage in both hands.
Take one thing with another.
Take something by the best handle.
Take the rough with the smooth.
Take the world as it is.
Take the world as one finds it.
Take things as they come (or are) 既来之，则安之。
Take time by the forelock.
Take time for deliberation; hste spoils everything.
Take time to deliberate; but when the time for action arrives, stop thinking and go in.
Take time when time comes lest time steal away.
Take time while time is, for time will be away.
Talk of an angel and you'll hear his wings.
Talk of the devil, and he is sure to appear.
Tall trees catch much wind.
Tastes differ.
Teaching others teaches yourself.
Tears are the silent language of grief.
Telling your troubles is swelling your troubles.
Tell me thy company and I will tell thee what thou art.
Tell not all you know nor judge of all you see if you would live in peace.
Temperance is the best physic.
Temperance is the greatest of virtues.
That is a good book which is opened with expectation and closed with profit.
That is not good language which all understand not.
That's good wisdom which is wisdom in the end.
That teacher helps his pupils most who most helps them to help themselves.
That which is evil is soon learnt.
That which is striking and beautiful is not always good, but that which is good is always beautiful.
That which one least anticipates soonest comes to pass.
That which was bitter to endure may be sweet to remember.
The abundance of money ruins youth.
The ass wags his ears.
The battle is to the strong.
The beginnings of all things are small.
The belly has no ears.
The best fish smell when they are three days old.
The best fish swim near the bottom.
The best hearts are always the bravest.
The best horse needs breaking, and the aptest child needs teaching.
The best is oftentimes the enemy of the good.
The best is yet to be.
The best man stumbles.
The best mirror is an old friend.
The best of all governments is that which teaches us to govern ourselves.
The best of friends must part.
The best remedy against an ill man is much ground between.
The best smell is bread, the best savour salt, the best love that of children.
The best teacher one can have is necessity.
The best teachers of humanity are the lives of great men.
The better the day, the better the deed.
The bough that bears most, hangs lowest.
The brave man hazards his life, but not his conscience.
The brightest of all things, the sun, has its spots.
The burden on likes is cheerfully borne.
The busiest men find (or have) the most leisure (or time).
The cask savours of the first fill.
The cat and dog may kiss, yet are none the better.
The catin glores catch no mice.
The cat shut its eyes while it steals cream.
The chief aim of man is not to get money.
The child is father of (or to) the man.
The cobbler must stick to his last.
The cobbler's wife is the worst shod.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
The cow knows not what her tail is worth until she has lost it 牛失其尾，方知其贵。
The cowl (or hood) does not make the monk.
The creditor has always a better memory than the detor.
The crow thinks her own birds fairest.
The cruelest lies are often told in silence.
The crushed worm will turn.
The cuckoo comes in April, and stays the month of May; sings a song at midsummer, and then goes away.
The dainties of the great are the tears of the poor.
The darkest hour is that before the dawn.
The day has eyes, the night has ears.
The day is long to him who knows not how to use it.
The devil can cite the Scriptures for his purpose.
The devil is good when he is pleased.
The devil is not so black as he is painted.
The devil knows may things because he is old.
The devil lurks behind the cross.
The devil may get in by the keyhole, but the door won't let him out.
The diamonds of other countries are always the most beautiful.
The doctor is often more to be feared than the disease.
The dogs bark, but the caravan goes on.
The dog that fetches will carry.
The drop hollows the stone, not by force, but by the frequency of its fall.
The early bird catches the worm.
The effect speaks, the tongue needs not.
The end crowns the work.
The end justifies (or sanctifies) the means.
The evils we bring on ourselves are the hardest to bear.
The evil wound is cured but not the evil name.
The exception proves the rule.
The eye is blind if the mind is absent.
The eye that sees all things else sees not itself.
The face is the index of the mind (or heart).
The falling out of lovers is the renewing of love.
The farmers are the founders of civilization and prosperity.
The farthest way about is the nearest way home.
The fear of ill exceeds the ills we fear.
The finest diamond must be cut.
The fire is the test of gold; adversity of strong man.
The fire which lights (or warms) us at a distance will burn us when near.
The first blow is half the battle.
The first element of success is the determination to succeed.
The first step is as good as half over.
The first step is the only difficulty.
The first step to virtue is to abstain from vice.
The first wealth is health.
The fool does think he is wise, but the wise man knows himself to be a fool.
The fool has his heart on his tongue, the wise man keeps his tongue in his heart.
The fool talks, and the wise man thinks.
The foundation of true joy is in the conscience.
The fox changes his skin but not his habit.
The fox knew too much, that's how he lost his tail.
The fox smells his own stink first.
The friar preached against stealing and had a goose in his sleeve.
The frog in well knows nothing of the great ocean.
The future belongs to him who knows how to wait.
The future of society is in the hands of mothers; if the world was lost through woman she alone can save it.
The good seaman is known in bad weather.
The government of the people, by the people, and for the people shall not perish from the earth.
The grass is greener on the other side.
The great and the little have need one of another.
The greater the truth, the greater the libel.
The greatest fool is he who worries about what he cannot help.
The greatest friend of truth is time, her greatest enemy is prejudice, and her constant companion is humility.
The greatest hate springs from the greatest love.
The greatest liars talk most of themselves.
The greatest obstacle to progress is prejudice.
The greatest of faults is to be conscious of none.
The greatest pleasure of life is love.
The greatest talkers are always the least doers.
The great fish ear up the small.
The heart of the giver makes the gift dear and precious.
The heart sees further than the head.
The heart that once truly loves never forgets.
The higher the ape goes, the more he shows his tail.
The highest art is to conceal art.
The honest penny is better than the stolen dollar.
The house shows the owner.
The hungry belly has no ears.
The imnportant thing in life is to have a great aim, and the determination to attain it.
Theings past cannot be recalled.
Theings present are judged by things past.
The joy of the heart makes the face merry.
The last drop makes the cup run over.
The least said, the soonest mended.
The leopard cannot change its spots.
The liar's punishment is not in the least that he is not believed, but that he cannot believe anyone else.
The life of the wolf is the death of the lamb.
The lone sheep is in danger of the wolf.
The longest day has an end.
The longest way round is the shortest way home.
The love of beauty is an essential part of all healthy human nature.
The love of money and the love of learning rarely meet.
The love of money is the root of all evil.
The maintaining of one vice costs more than ten virtues.
The man who makes no mistakes does not usually make anything.
The milk is spilled.
The mill cannot grind with the water that is past.
The mills of God grind slowly but sure.
The money the miser hoards will do him no good.
The moon does not heed the barking of dogs.
The moon is a moon whether it shines or not.
The moon is not seen where the sun shines.
The more a man knows, the less he knows he knows.
The more a man knows, the more he is inclined to be modest.
The more a man knows, the more he see his ignorance.
The more haste, she less speed.
The more noble, the more humble.
The more riches a fool hath, the greater fool he is.
The more, the merrier.
The more the well is used, the more water it gives.
The more things a man is ashamed of the more respectable he is.
The more we do, the more we can do; the more busy we are, the more leisure we have.
The more we study, the more we discover our ignorance.
The more women look in their glass, the less they look to their house.
The morning sun never lasts a day.
The morning to the mountain the evening to the fountain.
The most busiest men find (or have) the most leisure (or time) 最忙碌的人有最多的空闲。
The most useful learning in the world is that which teches us how to die well.
The most utterly lost of all days is that in which you have not once laughed.
The mother's heart is the child's schoolroom.
The mountain has brought forth a mouse.
The mouse that hath but one hole is quickly taken.
The mouth of a wise man is in his heart; the heart of a fool is in his mouth.
The nearer the bone the sweeter the flesh.
The nearer to church, the farther from God.
The older the goose the harder to pluck.
The old goose plays not with foxes.
The only cure for grief is action.
The only secret a woman can keep is that of her age.
The (or A) beggar may sing before the thief (or footbad).
The outsideer sees the best (or most) of the game.
The pain of the mind is worse than the pain of the body.
The past is for wisdom, the present for action, but for joy the future.
The path down to evil is easy.
The path of duty is the path of safety.
The path to glory is always rugged.
The peacock has fair feathers, but foul feet.
The pen is mightier than the sword.
The pen is the tougue of the mind.
The person who arrives, ect early will (probably) succeed.
The poor are rich when they are satisfied.
The poor man wants much, the miser everything.
The pot calls the kettle black.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
The raceis got by running.
There are as good fish in the sea as ever came out of it.
There are but three ways of living: by working, by stealing, or by begging.
There are lees to every wine.
There are more foolish buyers than foolish sellers.
There are no birds of this year in last year's nests.
There are obviously two educations.
There are only two powers in the world, the sword and the pen; and in the end the former is always conquered by the latter.
There are spots in (or on) the sum.
There are three ways of spreading news.
There are two sides to every question.
The receiver is as bad as the thief.
There is a black sheep in every flock.
There is a crook in the lot of everyone.
There is a great deal of difference between the eager man who wants to read a book, and the tired man who wants a book to read.
There is a skeleton in every house.
There is a small choice in rotten apples.
There is a time to speak and a time to be silent.
There is but one step from the sublime to the ridiculous.
There is honour among thieves.
There is life in the old dog yet.
There is more trouble in having nothing to do than in having much to do.
There is much to be said on both sides.
There is noaccounting for tastes.
There is no fire without smoke.
There is no fool like an old fool.
There is no general rule without some exception.
There is none without a fault.
There is no paradise on earth equal to the union of love andd innocence.
There is no place like home.
There is no rose without a thorn.
There is no royal road to learning.
There is no smoke without fire.
There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.
There is nothing which has not been bitter before being ripe.
There is nothing worse than apathy.
There is no time like the present.
There is no wealth like unto knowledge, for thieves cannot steal it.
Thereis no wool so white but a dyer can make it black.
There is safety in numbers.
The remedy for injuries is not to remember them.
The remedy is worse than the disease.
The remembrance of past sorrow is joyful.
There's as good fish in the sea as ever came out of it.
There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle.
There's many a slip between the cup and the lip.
There's more knows Tom Fool than Tom Fool knows.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The rotten apple injuries its neighbours.
The sacrifice of time is the costliest of all sacrifices.
The scalded cat fears cold water.
The sea complains it wants water.
The sea refuses no river.
The secret of a good momory is attention, and attention to a subject depends upon our interest in it.
The secret of success in life is for a man to be ready for his opportumity when it comes.
The secret of success is constancy of purpose.
The shortest answer is doing the thing.
The shortest way to do many things is to do only one thing at a time.
The sky is not less blue because the blind man does not see it.
The sleeping fox catches no poultry.
The small courtesies sweeten life; the greater ennoble it.
The smiles of a pretty woman are the tears of the purse.
The soul is not where it lives, but it loves.
The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak.
The still sow eats up all the draff.
The style is the man.
The sun shines all alike.
The surest way to be happy is to be busy.
The sweetest grapes hang the highest.
The sweetest thing in life.
The tail does often catch the fox.
The tailor makes the man.
The talent of success is nothing more than doing well whatever you do without a thought of fame.
The three foundations of learning: seeing much, suffering much, and studying much.
The three things most difficult are, to keep a secret, to forget an injury, and to make good use of labour.
The tiger has once tasted blood is never sated with the taste of it.
The tongue is but three inches long, yet it can kill a man six feet high.
The tongue is not steel yet it cuts.
The tongue of idle persons is never idle.
The tortosis wins the race while the hare is sleeping.
The truest politeness comes from sincerity.
The truths we least like to hear are those which it is most to our advantage to know.
The unrighteous penny corrupts the righteous pound.
The used key is always bright.
The virtue of a man ought to be measured not by his extraordinary exertions, but by his everyday conduct.
The voice is the best music.
The voice of one man is the voice of no one.
The voice of the people is the voice of God.
The water that bears the boat is the same that swallows it up.
The weakest goes to the wall.
The wealth of the mind is the only true wealth.
The wife is the key of the house.
The wine in the bolttle does not quench thirst.
The wisdom of nations lies in their proverbs, which are brief and pithy.
The wise are instructed by reason; ordinary minds, by experience; the stupid, by necessity; and brutes, by instinct.
The wise hand doth not all that the foolish mouth speaks.
The wise man has long ears and a short tongue.
The wise man is always a good listener.
The wise man knows he knows nothing, but the fool thinks he knows it all.
The wise man's tongue is a shield, not a sword.
The wish is father to the thought.
The wolf has a winning game when the shepherds quarrel.
The wolf may lose his teeth, but never his nature.
The word "Impossible" is not in my dictionary.
The word once spoken can never be realled.
The work shows the workman.
The world is a ladder for some to go up and some down.
The world is but a little place, after all.
The world is comedy to those who think, a tragedy to those who feel.
The worst men often give the best advice.
The worst misfortunes are these that never hzppen.
The worth of a thing is best known by the want of it.
They are never alone accompanied by noble thoughts.
They assume most who know the least.
They bray most that can do least.
They die well that live well.
The years teach much which the days never know.
They must hunger in frost that will not work in heat.
They that live longest must die at last.
They that marry in green, their sorrow is soon seen.
They that (or who) live longest see most.
They that sow in tears shall reap in joy.
They who cannot do as they would, must do as they can.
They who live in a worry.
Things done cannot be undone.
Things of a kind come together; people of a kind fall into the same group.
Things rashly taken end as ill.
Things unreasonable are never durable.
Think about the misforture of others that you may be satisfied with your own lot.
Think all you speak, but speak not all you think.
Thinking well is wise; planning well, wiser; doing well, wisest and best of all.
Think much, speak little, and write less.
Think of the devil and he's looking over your shoulders.
Think today and speak tomorrow.
Think with the wise, but talk with the vulgar.
This world belongs to the energetic.
Thoroughly to teach another is the best way to learn for yourself.
Those that make the best use of their time have none to spare.
Those who believe money can do everything are frequently prepared to do everything for money.
Those who climb high often have a fall.
Those who complain most are most to be complained of.
Those who eat best and drink best often do worst.
Those who live in glass houses should not throw stones.
Those who work deserve to eat; those who do not work deserve to starve.
Thos who eat most are not always fattest; those who read most, not always wisest.
Though a lie be well dressd, it is ever overcome.
Though malice may darken truth, it cannot put it out.
Though the fox run, the chicken hath wings.
Though the wound be healed yet a scar remains.
Though thy enemy seem a mouse, yet watch him like a lion.
Thought is the seed of action.
Though you cast out nature with a fork, it will still return.
Three removes are as bad as a fire.
Three things soon pass away; the echo of the woods, the rainbow, and woman's beauty.
Thrift is good revenue.
Through obedience learn to command.
Throw away the apple because of the core.
Thy friend has a friend and thy friend's friend has a friend so be discreet.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Time and words can never be recalled.
Time cures all things.
Time discloses (or reveals) all things.
Time does not bow to you,, you must bow to time.
Time flies.
Time is great healer.
Time is money.
Time is money, but money is not time.
Time marches on.
Time past cannot be called back again.
Time past never returns, amoment lost, lost for ever.
Time reveals all things.
Time tames the strongest grief.
Time tries all.
Time tries truth.
Time works great changes.
Time works wonders.
Timid dogs bark most.
To a boiling pot flies come not.
To acquire wealth is difficult, to preserve it more difficult, but to spend it wisely most difficult of all.
To a crazy ship all winds are contrary.
To be angry with a weak man is a proof that you are not very strong yourself.
To be of use in the world is the only way to be happy.
To be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of preserving peace.
To be virtuous is to do good.
To care for wisdom and truth and the improvement of the soul is far better than to seek money and honour and reputation.
To convert defeat into victoty.
Today is the scholar of yesterday.
To err is human.
To err is human; to forgive, divine.
To forgive our enemies is a charming way of revenge.
To gain teaches how to spend.
To have a stomach and lack meat; to have meat and lack a stomach; to lie in bed and cannot rest; are great miseries.
To have money is a fear, not to have it a grief.
To hear a hundred times is not so good as to see once.
To him that does everything in its proper time, one day is worth three.
To know everything is to know nothing.
To know how to wait is the great secret of success.
To know one's self is true progress.
To know the disease is half the cure.
To learn obeying is the fundamental art of governing.
To live in the hearts of those left behind is not to die.
To live long is almost everyone's wish, but to live well is the ambitiion of a few.
To lose a freind is the greatest of all loses.
To love and to be loved is the greatest happiness of existence.
To make enemies, talk; to make friends, listen.
To marry a woman for her beauty is like buying a house for its paint.
To mention the wolf's name is to see the same.
Tomorrow comes never.
Tomorrow is another day.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Too much humility is pride.
Too much knowledge makes the head bald.
Too much liberty spoils all.
Too much spoils, too little is nothing.
Too much water drowned the miller.
Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow.
To pay a person in his own way.
To preserve a friend three things are required: to honour him present, praise him absent, and assist him in his necessities.
To promise and give nothing is comfort to a fool.
To read without reflection is like eating without digestion.
To really understand a man we must judge him in misfortune.
To save time is to lengthen life.
To say little and perform much is the characteristic of great minds.
To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.
To travel hopefully is a better thing than to arrive, and the true success is to labour.
To travel through the world it is necessary to have the mouth of hog, the legs of a stag, the eyes of a falcon, the ears of an ass, shoulders of a camel, and the face of an ape, and overplus, a satchel full of money and patience.
Touch pitch and you will be defiled.
To worry about tomorrow is to be unhappy today.
To youth I have but words of counsel -- work, work, work.
Travel east or travel west, a man's own home is still the best.
Tread on a worm and it will turn.
Troubles never come singly.
True blue will never stain.
True coral needs no painter's brush.
True friendship is a plant of slow growth.
True friendship is like sound health, the value of it is seldom known until it be lost.
True love is giving not taking.
True love never grows old.
True love shows itself in time of need.
True praise roots and spreads.
True wisdom is know what is best worth knowing, and to do what is best worth doing.
Trust not the praise of a friend, nor the contempt of an enemy.
Trust thyself only, and another shall not betray thee.
Truth and love are two of the most powerful things in the world; and when they both go together they cannot easily be withstood.
Truth and roses have thorns about them.
Truth fears not the flames of slander and injustice.
Truth hath a good face, but ill clothes.
Truth is honest, truth is sure; Truth is strong and must endure.
Truth is (or lies) at the bottom of the decater.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Truth is the daughter of time.
Truth is the foundation of all knowledge, and the cement of all societies.真理是一切知识的基础，是一切社团的纽带。
Truth lies at the bottom of a well.
Truth may be blamed, but shall never be shamed.
Truth needs no colour; beauty, no pencil.
Truth, once crushed, will rise again.
Truth's best ornament is nakedness.
Truth will conquer.
Truth will prevail.
Truth will stand without a prop.
Try (your friend) before you trust him.
Turn your tongue seven times before speaking.
Two blacks do not make a white.两个乌黑不等于一个清白。
Two cats and a mouse, two wives in one house, two dogs and a bone, never agree in one.
Two dogs over one bone seldom agree.
Two dogs strive for a bone, and a third runs away with it.
Two ears to one tongue, therefore hear twice as much as you speak.
Two heads are better than one.
Two in distress makes sorrow less.同病相怜。
Two is company, but three is none.两人成为伴，三人不结侣。
Two of a trade seldom agree.同行是冤家。
Two persons cannot long be friends if they cannot forgive each other's little failings.
Two quarrel and a third profits by it.鹬蚌相争，渔翁得利。
Two sparrows on one ear of corn make an ill agreement.
Two things doth prolong your life: a quiet heart and a loving wife.
Two wrongs don't make a right.
Union is strength.
Unkindness destroys love.
Unprofitable eloquence is like the cypress, which is great and tall, but bears no fruit.
Until all is over one's ambition never dies.
Use a book as a bee does flowers.
Use is a second nature.
Vain glory blossoms but never bears.
Velvet paws hide sharp claws.
Venture a small fish to catch a great one.
Victory belongs to the m ost persevering.
Virtue is a jewel of great price.
Virtue is her (or its) own reward.
Virtue is the only true nobility.
Virtue never grows old.
Virture is fairer far than beauty.
Viture flies from the heart of a mercenary man.
Vows made in storms are forgotten in calms.
Wade not in unknown water.
Wahtever a man sow, that shall he also reap.
Walk groundly; talk profoundly; drink roundly; sleep soundly.
Walls (or Pitchers) have ears.
Want of care does us more damage than want of knowledge.
War is death's feast.
War is the business of barbarians.
War makes thieves, and peace hangs them.
Wash a dog, comb a dog, Still a dog, remains a dog.
Waste not, want not.
Waste of time is the most extravagant and costly of all expenses.
Water afar quenches not fire.
Water dropping day by day wears the hardest rock away.
Weak men wait for opportunity, but the strong men make it.
We all do fade as a leaf.
Wealth is not his who has it, but his who enjoys it.
Wealth makes worship.
Wealth may be an excellent thing, for it means power, leisure, and liberty.
We are not born for ourselves.
We can live without a brother, but not without a friend.
We can live without our friends, but not without our neighbours.
We first make our habits, and then our habits make us.
We have no more right to consume happiness without producing it than to consume wealth without producing it.
We hope to grow old, yet we fear old age; that is, we are willing to live, and afraid to die.
We know not what is good until we have lost it.
We learn not at school, but in life.
Well begun is half done.
Well fed, wed bred.
We must repeat a thousand and one times that perseverance is the only road to success.
We never know the worth (or value) of water till the well is dry.
We only live once,, but if we work it right once is enough.
We shall lie all alike in our graves.
We shall never have friends if we expect to find them without fault.
We should never remember the benefit we have offered nor forget the favour received.
We should push our work, the work should not push us.
We should weep for men at their birth and not a t their death.
We soon believe what we desire.
What a sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
What cannot be cured must be endured.
What does the moon care if the dogs bark at her?
What do you expect from a pig but a grunt?
Whatever I do, I will do in my power.
Whatever man has done man may do.
Whatever you do, do with your might; Things done by halves are never done right.
What good shall I do this day?
What I have done is due to patient thought.
What is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh.
What is done by night appears by day.
What is done cannot be undone.
What is known to three is known to everybody.
What is learnt in the cradle lasts (or is carried) to the grave.
What is not wisdom is danger.
What is one man's cloud is another man's sunshine.
What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.
What is sculpture is to a block of marble, education is to the soul.
What is there sadder under the sun than a day that is gone and notyhing done.
What is wealth good for, if it brings melancholy?
What is worth doing at all is worth doing well.
What makes life dreary is the want of motive.
What must be must be.
What's bred in the bone will come out in the flesh.
What's done by night appears by day.
What's done can't be undone.
What's learnt in the cradle lasts till the tomb.
What's lost is lost.
What's more miserable than discontent?
What soberness conceals, drunkenness reveals.
Whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye ever so to them.
What the eye does not see, the heart does not grieve over.
What the eye sees not, the heart craves not.
What the heart thinks, the tongue speaks.
What we are ignorant of is immense.
What we do willingly is easy.
What we learn with pleasure we never forget.
What we lose in hake we shall have in herring.
What you dislike in another, take care to correct in yourself.
What you lose on the swings you gain (or get back) on the roundabouts.
What youth is used to, age remembers.
Whe angry, count ten before you speak; if very angry, a hundred.
When a dog is drowning everyone offers him drink.
When a friend asks, there is no tomorrow.
When ale (or drink or wine) is in wit is out.
When all men speak no man hears.
When anger blinds the mind, truth disapears.
When an opportunity is neglected, it never comes back to you.
When flatterers meet, the devil goes to dinner.
When Greek meets Greek, then comes the tug of war.
When guns speak it is too late to argue.
When in doubt, play trumps.
When in Rome do as the Romans do.
When love puts in, friendship is gone.
When one is about to act, one must reason first.
When poverty comes in at the door, love flies out at the window.
When riches increase, the body decreases.
When rogues (or thieves) fall out, honest men come by their own.
When sorrows come, they come not single spies, but in battalions.
When stupid man is doing something he is ashamed of, he always declares that it is his duty.
When the belly is full, the bones would be at rest.
When the belly is full the mind is among the maids.
When the cat's away the mice will play.
When the ffish is caught the net is laid aside.
When the fight begins within himself a man's worth something, 内心开始斗争时，为人就会有价值。
When the fox preaches, take care of your geese.
When the fruit is scarcest, its taste is sweetest.
When the heart is afire, some sparks will fly out at the mouth.
When the heart is full,, the tongue will speak.
When the sun comes in, the doctor goes out.
When the well is full, it will run over.
When the wound is healed, the pain is forgotten.
When three know it, all know it.
When two friends have a common purse, one sings and the other weeps.
When two ride on one horse, one must sit behind.
When war begins then hell opens.
When we have gold we are in fear; when we have none we are in danger.
When wine is in truth is out.
When you go to buy, use your eyes not your ears.
Where drums beat, laws are silent.
Where love fails we espy all faults.
Where love is there is faith.
Where might is master, justice is servant.
Where (or While) there is life there is hope.
Where passion is high there reason is low.
Where the knot is loose the string slips.
Where there is a will,, there is a way(or skill).
Where there is no good within, no good comes out.
Where there's reek there's heat.
Where the sun enterd, the doctor does not.
Where they saw chance, we see law.
Wherever he is satisfied with what he does, he has reached his culminating point--he will progress no more.
Where your will is ready, your feet are light.
While (or Where) there is life there is hope.
While the grass grows the horse (or steed) starves.
While the priest climbs a post, the devil climbs ten.
While the word is in your mouth, it is your own; when 'tis once spoken, 'tis another's.
While we breathe, there is hope.
Who answers suddenly knows little.
Who are ready to believe are easy to deceive.
Who has never tasted bitter, knows not what is sweet.
Who has no haste in his business mountains to him seem valleys.
Who holds the purse rules the house.
Who keeps company with the wolf will learn to howl.
Who knows most speaks (or says) least.
Who knows not how to dissemble knows not how to live.
Who lives by hope will die by hunger.
Who loses liberty loses all.
Who makes everything right must rise early.
Whom God would ruin, he first deprives of reason.
Who minds his own business has no time to mind other folks.
Whom the gods love die young.
Whom we love best to them we can say least.
Who serves everybody gets thanks from nobody.
Who swims in sin shall sink in sorrow.
Who undertakes many things at once, seldom does anything well.
Who will not keep a penny, shall never have many.
Wicked men obey from fear; good men, from love.
Wickedness does not go altogether unrequited.
Wilful waste makes woeful want.
Wine and judgement mature with age.
Wine in the bottle does not quench thirst.
Wine is mirror of the mind.
Wisdom in the mind is better than money in the hand.
Wisdom is a good purchase though we pay dear for it.
Wisdom is better than gold or silver.
Wisdom is more to be envied than riches.
Wisdom is only found in truth.
Wisdom is to the mind what health is to the body.
Wise care begets care.
Wise men chanbge their mind, fools never.
Wise men have their mouth in their heart, fools their heart in their mouth.
Wise men learn by other men's mistakes (or harms); fools by their own.
Wise men love truth, whereas fools shun it.
Wit bought is better than wit taught.
Without a friend the world is a wilderness.
Without danger we cannot get beyond danger.
Without health, life is not life, life is lifeless.
Without hope, the heart would break.
Without method, little can be done to any good purpose.
Without practice, hopes will be reduced to zero.
Without respect, love cannot go far.
Without wisdom wealth is worthless.
With time and patience the leaf of the mulberry becomes satin.
Wit once bought is worth twice taught.
Wit without learning is like a tree without fruit.
Woe to him that is alone.
Women in mischief are wiser than men.
Wonders are many, and nothing is more wonderful than man.
Words are but wind.
Words cut (or hurt) more than swords.
Words pay no debts.
Work bears witness who does well.
Work has a bitter root but sweet fruit.
Working without a plan is sailing without a compass.
Work makes the workman.
Work today, for you know not how much you may be hindered tomorrow.
Work will not kill a man but worry will.
Worry kills more men than work.
Would you know your daughter, see her in company.
Write down the advice of him that loves you, though you like it not at present.
Write it on your heart every day is the best day of the year.
Years bring wisdom.
Yesterday is dead, forget it; tomorrow does not exist, don't worry; today is here, use it.
Yesterday will not be called again.
You are the greatest enemy if you are a coward, but if you are brave, you are your greatest friend.
You can do more than strike while the iron is hot; you can make the iron hot by striking.
You can fool some of the people all the time, and all of the people some of the time; but you can't fool all of the people all the time.
You cannot clap with one hand.
You cannot flay the same ox twice.
You cannot have two forenoons in the same day.
You cannot judge a tree by its bark.
You cannot make a crab walk straight.
You cannot sell the cow and sup the milk.
You can take a horse to the water but you cannot make him drink.
You can't eat your cake and have it.
You can't make bricks without straw.
You can't make omelets (or omeletts) without breaking eggs.
You have no goats, and yet you sell kids.
You make the failure complete when you stop strying.
You may force a man to shut his eyes, but you cannot make him sleep.
You may go farther and fare worse.
You may know the horse by his harness.
You must not pledge your own health.
You must reap what you have sown.
You never know what you can do till you try.
Young man may die but old men must die.
You (or One) cannot make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
You roll my log and I'll roll yours.
Youth is a blunder; manhood a struggle, old age a regret.
Youth is life's seed-time.
Youth is the season of hope, enterprise, and energy, to a nation as well as an individual.
Youth looks forward and age backward.
Youth means limitless possibilities.
Zeal without knowledge is fire without light.
